README.adoc, before:

= Korrel8r: Signal Correlation for Kubernetes and Beyond
:toc: preamble
:pages: https://korrel8r.github.io/korrel8r

[abstract]
Korrel8r is a correlation engine for observability signals and observable resources. +
It can correlate multiple domains, diverse signals, inconsistent labelling,  and varied data stores.

CAUTION: Korrel8r is still in early development. There are no compatibility guarantees between versions.

NOTE: {pages}[Read the Korrel8r Documentation] for more about what Korrel8r is and how to use it.

There is a short link:demos/openshift-console-browser/video.mov[demo video]

=== Cluster Set-up

There are scripts and examples to set up a cluster with logging, metrics and other observable signals:

* link:hack/openshift/README.md[hack/openshift] for OpenShift clusters.
* link:hack/kind/README.md[hack/kind] for Kind clusters.

Log into your cluster as `kubeadmin` or other admin user.

=== Installing and running locally

You can install and run korrel8r on your local host, it can observe your cluster from the outside.
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
go install github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/cmd/korrel8r@latest
korrel8r web -http :8080 &
----

With korrel8r running, you can browse the following URLs:

http://localhost:8080 - Interactive browser interface.
* http://localhost:8080/api # REST API documentation


=== Deploying on a cluster

You can deploy the latest korrel8r image to your cluster in namespace `korrel8r`
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/config/base
----

On an OpenShift cluster, you can create a route to korrel8r with `make route` to connect to korrel8r.
On other types of cluster you can create a port mapping or ingress.

[source,bash]
----
make route
URL=$(make route-url)
----

Browse the following URLs:

* `$URL`     # Interactive browser interface.
* `$URL/api` # REST API documentation

== Developers

Browsable Go and REST API documentation (generated from source):
- [REST API documentation](pkg/api/docs/swagger.md)
- [Go API documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/pkg/korrel8r)

If you are interested in helping to develop Korrel8r:
- clone this repository
- `make help` will list make targets with brief explanation.
- `make run` will run korrel8r directly from source using the checked-in configuration

=== Building Images

By default, the Makefile uses `quay.io/korrel8r/korrel8r` as its image repository.
Set `IMG` to use a different repository:

- `make image IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` build and push an image to your image repository.
- `make deploy IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` deploy your image to your cluster.

IMPORTANT: you need a _public_ image repository on a public service like `quay.io` or `docker.io`.
Some services (including `quay.io`) make new repositories _private_ by default.
You may need to log in and change settings so that your new repository is _public_.

Commit message:

Added domain doc with class and query examples.
Also minor fixes:
- Better reporting of store connect errors.
- Rename pkg/api/docs to pkg/api/zz_docs to indicate it is generated.
- Minor flag and log fixes

README.adoc, after:

= Korrel8r: Signal Correlation for Kubernetes and Beyond
:toc: preamble
:pages: https://korrel8r.github.io/korrel8r

[abstract]
Korrel8r is a correlation engine for observability signals and observable resources. +
It can correlate multiple domains, diverse signals, inconsistent labelling,  and varied data stores.

CAUTION: Korrel8r is still in early development. There are no compatibility guarantees between versions.

NOTE: {pages}[Read the Korrel8r Documentation] for more about what Korrel8r is and how to use it.

There is a short link:demos/openshift-console-browser/video.mov[demo video]

=== Cluster Set-up

There are scripts and examples to set up a cluster with logging, metrics and other observable signals:

* link:hack/openshift/README.md[hack/openshift] for OpenShift clusters.
* link:hack/kind/README.md[hack/kind] for Kind clusters.

Log into your cluster as `kubeadmin` or other admin user.

=== Installing and running locally

You can install and run korrel8r on your local host, it can observe your cluster from the outside.
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
go install github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/cmd/korrel8r@latest
korrel8r web -http :8080 &
----

With korrel8r running, you can browse the following URLs:

- http://localhost:8080 - Interactive browser interface.
- http://localhost:8080/api - REST API documentation

You can also run korrel8r as a command line tool, see `korrel8r --help` for commands and options.

=== Deploying on a cluster

You can deploy the latest korrel8r image to your cluster in namespace `korrel8r`
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/config/base
----

On an OpenShift cluster, you can create a route to korrel8r with `make route` to connect to korrel8r.
On other types of cluster you can create a port mapping or ingress.

[source,bash]
----
make route
URL=$(make route-url)
----

Browse the following URLs:

* `$URL`     # Interactive browser interface.
* `$URL/api` # REST API documentation

== Developers

Documentation:

- {pages}[Korrel8r User guide and Reference] for more about what Korrel8r is and how to use it.
- https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/pkg/korrel8r:[Go package documentation]

If you are interested in helping to develop Korrel8r:
- clone this repository
- `make help` will list make targets with brief explanation.
- `make run` will run korrel8r directly from source using the checked-in configuration

=== Building Images

By default, the Makefile uses `quay.io/korrel8r/korrel8r` as its image repository.
Set `IMG` to use a different repository:

- `make image IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` build and push an image to your image repository.
- `make deploy IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` deploy your image to your cluster.

IMPORTANT: you need a _public_ image repository on a public service like `quay.io` or `docker.io`.
Some services (including `quay.io`) make new repositories _private_ by default.
You may need to log in and change settings so that your new repository is _public_.
