doc/HACKING.adoc, before:

= Hacking on Korrel8r

Tips for contributing to the Korrel8r project.

== Installing via Kustomize

For development you can use `kustomize` or `kubectrl apply -k` directly.
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/config/base
----

On {rh-ocp}, you can create a `route` to the service with `make route`.

[source,bash]
----
make route
URL=$(make route-url)
----

On other types of cluster you can use port mapping or an `ingress`.

Browse the following URLs:

* `$URL`     # Interactive browser interface.
* `$URL/api` # REST API documentation

== Running as an external executable

You can install and run korrel8r on your local host, it can observe your cluster from the outside.
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
go install github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/cmd/korrel8r@latest
korrel8r web -http :8080 &
----

With korrel8r running, you can browse the following URLs:

- http://localhost:8080 - Interactive browser interface.
- http://localhost:8080/api - REST API documentation

You can also run korrel8r as a command line tool, see `korrel8r --help` for commands and options.

== Cluster Set-up

There are scripts and examples to help set up logging, metrics and other observable signals:

* link:hack/openshift/README.md[hack/openshift] for OpenShift clusters.
* link:hack/kind/README.md[hack/kind] for Kind clusters.

Log into your cluster as `kubeadmin` or other admin user.


w
If you are interested in helping to develop Korrel8r:
- clone this repository
- `make help` will list make targets with brief explanation.
- `make run` will run korrel8r directly from source using the checked-in configuration

== Building Images

By default, the Makefile uses `quay.io/korrel8r/korrel8r` as its image repository.
Set `IMG` to use a different repository:

- `make image IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` build and push an image to your image repository.
- `make deploy IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` deploy your image to your cluster.

IMPORTANT: you need a _public_ image repository on a public service like `quay.io` or `docker.io`.
Some services (including `quay.io`) make new repositories _private_ by default.
You may need to log in and change settings so that your new repository is _public_.

== Contributing to documentation

. Fork and clone the repository
. Install Go
. Install make
. Run the following command to install required tools:
+
[source,terminal]
----
make tools
----

. Make changes to the docs, then run the following command to generate the local `_site` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
make _site
----

Preview `_site` with your web browser.

Commit message:

Move operator into this repository.
Documentation and API changes are hard to manage across two repos.
Move the operator into this repo, as a separate go module.

doc/HACKING.adoc, after:

= Hacking on Korrel8r

Tips for contributing to the Korrel8r project.

== Installing via Kustomize

For development you can use `kustomize` or `kubectrl apply -k` directly.
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -k https://github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/config/base
----

On {rh-ocp}, you can create a `route` to the service with `make route`.

[source,bash]
----
make route
URL=$(make route-url)
----

On other types of cluster you can use port mapping or an `ingress`.

Browse the following URLs:

* `$URL`     # Interactive browser interface.
* `$URL/api` # REST API documentation

== Running as an external executable

You can install and run korrel8r on your local host, it can observe your cluster from the outside.
You need to be logged-in as `kubeadmin` to your cluster:

[source,bash]
----
go install github.com/korrel8r/korrel8r/cmd/korrel8r@latest
korrel8r web -http :8080 &
----

With korrel8r running, you can browse the following URLs:

- http://localhost:8080 - Interactive browser interface.
- http://localhost:8080/api - REST API documentation

You can also run korrel8r as a command line tool, see `korrel8r --help` for commands and options.

== Cluster Set-up

There are scripts and examples to help set up logging, metrics and other observable signals:

* link:hack/openshift/README.md[hack/openshift] for OpenShift clusters.
* link:hack/kind/README.md[hack/kind] for Kind clusters.

Log into your cluster as `kubeadmin` or other admin user.


w
If you are interested in helping to develop Korrel8r:
- clone this repository
- `make help` will list make targets with brief explanation.
- `make run` will run korrel8r directly from source using the checked-in configuration

== Building Images

By default, the Makefile uses `quay.io/korrel8r/korrel8r` as its image repository.
Set `IMG` to use a different repository:

- `make image IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` build and push an image to your image repository.
- `make deploy IMG=quay.io/myaccount/mykorrel8r` deploy your image to your cluster.

IMPORTANT: you need a _public_ image repository on a public service like `quay.io` or `docker.io`.
Some services (including `quay.io`) make new repositories _private_ by default.
You may need to log in and change settings so that your new repository is _public_.

== Building the operator

The operator code is in the `./operator` sub-directory of this repository.
See link:operator/README.adoc[] and link:operator/Makefile[] for more details.

== Contributing to documentation

. Fork and clone the repository
. Install Go
. Install make
. Run the following command to install required tools:
+
[source,terminal]
----
make tools
----

. Make changes to the docs, then run the following command to generate the local `_site` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
make _site
----

Preview `_site` with your web browser.
