doc/installing-korrel8r-ocp.adoc, before:

[id="installing-korrel8r-ocp"]
= OperatorHub community operator
include::attributes.adoc[]

There is a community operator for Korrel8r on OperatorHub.
It has been tested with {rh-ocp}, it may or may not work with other k8s clusters.

.Prerequisites

* You have administrator permissions on an {rh-ocp} cluster version 4.12 or newer.
* You have installed the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/logging/cluster-logging-deploying.html[Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator] version 5.8.1 or newer provided by {red-hat}.
* You have installed the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.html#logging-loki-gui-install_installing-log-storage[Loki Operator] version 5.8.1 or newer provided by {red-hat}, and have created a `LokiStack` custom resource (CR).
* You have https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/logging/cluster-logging-deploying.html#configuring-log-storage-cr_cluster-logging-deploying[created a `ClusterLogging` CR] that configures LokiStack as the log store.

.Procedure

. In the {rh-console} go to `Home > Console > Operators > OperatorHub`
. Type "korrel8r" in the filter box and select the Korrel8r Community tile +
  image:images/operatorhub-tile.png[Korrel8r Community Tile]
. Click Install, Install again, and you are done!

Commit message:

Fix #125: Documentation update
- Include korrel8rcli
- Fix structure outdated install/use docs.

doc/installing-korrel8r-ocp.adoc, after:

[id="installing-korrel8r-ocp"]
= OperatorHub community operator
include::attributes.adoc[]

There is a community operator for Korrel8r on OperatorHub.
It has been tested with {rh-ocp}, it may or may not work with other k8s clusters.

.Prerequisites

* You have administrator permissions on an {rh-ocp} cluster version 4.12 or newer.
* You have installed the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/logging/cluster-logging-deploying.html[Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator] version 5.8.1 or newer provided by {red-hat}.
* You have installed the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/logging/log_storage/installing-log-storage.html#logging-loki-gui-install_installing-log-storage[Loki Operator] version 5.8.1 or newer provided by {red-hat}, and have created a `LokiStack` custom resource (CR).
* You have https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/logging/cluster-logging-deploying.html#configuring-log-storage-cr_cluster-logging-deploying[created a `ClusterLogging` CR] that configures LokiStack as the log store.

.Procedure

. In the {rh-console} go to `Home > Console > Operators > OperatorHub`
. Type "korrel8r" in the filter box and select the Korrel8r Community tile +
  image:images/operatorhub-tile.png[Korrel8r Community Tile]
. Click Install, Install again.
. You will be asked to create a Korrel8r instance - accept the default settings.
. Korrel8r is now running in your cluster!
